---
layout:   post
title:    "rCORE"
subtitle: "TEMPLATE"
authors:  "Matt Perez, Jose Leal"
image:    "icon-rcore.svg"
---

<div style="display:none; ">
 <p>I think we know what the rHatchery is: We want to help <span class="_paradigm">FIAT</span> businesses transform into healthy companies. And we are developing tools: rCommunities and rCORE.</p>
</div>

<h1>rCommunities</h1>
 <p>Rather than putting ourselves at the center of things, we figured that a better way to help people make the transformation is by having them help each other and that is what the Communities are for. First we go through the Explicit Relationship process with each person, and then we introduce them to an <em>rCommunity</em> which is a group of people with compatible <em>Explicit Relationships</em> and interested in similar things.</p>
 <p>There already are a few rCommunities, the first of which is <em>rCORE</em>.</p>

<h1>rCORE</h1>
 <p><em>CORE Communications</em> is an interpretation service focused on injuries covered by the US <em>Worker&rsquo;s Comp</em> insurance.</p>
 <p>The business was founded by Carlos Suarez who we met him through Alicia Castillo-Holley, an investor and very good friend. Carlos read our book <em>RADICAL COMPANIES</em> and, after a few more conversations, it was clear that he was ready for the <span class="_paradigm">RADICAL</span> model.</p>
 <p>CORE&rsquo;s transformation was exciting, but even more so is that inpretations <span class="_quotespan">agencies</span> are gig shops: interpreters get paid for the interpretations they do. Not unlike <em>DoorDash</em> or <em>Uber Eats</em>. Gig workers deliver the value and get paid a small for each delivery while the <span class="_quotespan">agencies</span> keep the profits and brand value (<em>e.g.</em>, which brings up their share value). This was exciting because given that <em>CORE</em>&rsquo;s transformation into <em><span style="font-weight:bold; ">r</span>CORE</em> goes well, we will have a template for other gig businesses to transform to <span class="_paradigm">RADICAL</span> companies.</p>

<h1>But Wait: There Is More!</h1>
 <p>The other community so far is <a href="https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/09/22/rtools-rcommunity-100lives" target="_blank">#100lives</a>.</p>

{% include related.html %}
