---
layout:   post
title:    "The Fiat System Has Been Good - E003"
subtitle: "TEMPLATE"
authors:  "Matt Perez"
image:    "icon-fiat-has-been-good.svg"
hidden:   true
---

<div style="display:none; ">
 <p>Time for an alternative.</p>
</div>

<h1></h1>
 <p>Fiat hs been a positivy force. Certaily much better that communi<em>ism</em>. Socialism bounces back and forth, but, as practiced in Europe, socialism could be a contender. But it is too ill-defined.</p>
 <p>Fiat has been a positivy force until about WWII. After the last big European war it became destructive.</p>
 <p>To be sure it first showed its good aspects, like the GI Bill, education for people who fought in the war. But then those same people created the destructive form of capitalism. They didn&rsquo;t all get in a room and decided to do evil, but they created the destructive aspects of capitalism nontheless.</p>
 <p>They had plenty of oil and other minerals as assets. They created a system to make money/capital/power <em>for individuals</em> by expoiting those assets and people, as part f captalism.</p>
 <p>That is why, I believe, that WWWII was the beginning of the end. The elements were there, we just combined them and industrialized them in our suit-coat-and-tie uniforms.</p>
 <p>Fifteen years later, we got rid of the uniforms, but we continued to rob our space g ourselves outcapsule, our earth. But now we are forced to notice.</p>
 <p>Nobody knows what follows, except that itmwill be corrective. I say that because it is what we do: we us into a hole and then we did ourselves out.</p>

<div style="margin-bottom:1in; font-family: American Typewriter, serif; ">
 <span style="float:left; ">
  <a href="https://radicalcompanies.com/2024/12/01/book4-002">&lt; Previous</a>
 </span>
 <span style="float:right; ">
  <a href="https://radicalcompanies.com/2024/11/28/book4-intro">Next &gt;</a>
 </span>
</div>