---
layout:   post
title:    "Radical Ownership"
subtitle: "TEMPLATE"
authors:  "Matt Perez"
image:    "icon-radical-ownership.svg"
---

<div style='display:none;'>
 <p></p>
</div>

<h1>&nbsp;</h1>
 <p>Co-ownership is profoundly transformative, evoking a sense of hope and possibility. This revolutionary concept marks the demise of oligarchic wealth and the birth of decentralized power. Gone are the days of toiling for a mere wage; instead, you will be rewarded based on the contributions you make. No longer will a traditional <span class='_paradigm'>Fiat</span> owner hoard the wealth generated by your efforts. Instead, you will reap the wealth you helped create, enjoying an empowering and fulfilling experience.</p>
 <p>Co-ownership is the least understood thing about the <span class='_paradigm'>Radical</span> paradigm. It is not a co-op and it is not revenue sharing. It is powerfully different. We&rsquo;ll get into the details of it below.</p>

<h1>RADs Instead of Shares</h1>
 <p>Before I go on, I need to explain what <span class='_paradigm'>RAD</span>s are.</p>
 <p>The name, <span class='_paradigm'>RAD</span>s, is meaningless. It is the first name I could think of. But they are the key to decentralized ownership.</p>
 <p>We are used to &rdquo;somebody else,&rdquo; the boss, owning the business. <span class='_paradigm'>RAD</span>s make it possible to have decentralized ownership, where you and your peers own the company. You are part of creating value and wealth, and with <span class='_paradigm'>RAD</span>s you are a co-owner of it.</p>
 <p>The value that you help create shows up as revenue, money paid for your good or services. With decentralized ownership, you are a co-owner of that revenue. Now &rdquo;somebody else&ldquo; owns it.</p>

<h1>Not Revenue Sharing</h1>
 <p>Revenue sharing is done according to that the boss says people are going to get. In the <span class='_paradigm'>Radical</span>-based model, the system is decentralized and there is no boss to decide what you are going to get. Instead, your peers decide how many <span class='_paradigm'>RAD</span>s you get and you decide how many they get.</p>
 <p>The percentage of <span class='_paradigm'>RAD</span>s you end up with determine what percentage of the revunue you get.</p>

<h1>Not a Co-op</h1>
 <p>Co-operatives make everybody financially equal. But people&rsquo;s contributions are not equal. The same person can contribute a lot one month, but less the next.</p>
 <p><span class='_paradigm'>RAD</span>s are used to keep a tally of contributions.</p>
 
<h1>How RADs Work</h1>
 <p>Now we can talk about how <span class='_paradigm'>RAD</span>s work.</p>
 <p>The whole thing starts with recognized contributions. As you doing your work, other co-owners will recognize some of it as <em>contributions that resonate with them</em> and they will record those using the <em><span class='_paradigm'>RAD</span>s! mobile app</em> by simply pressing a button. The more signficant you find the contribution, the more button presses.</p>
 <p>At the end of the cycle (<em>e.g.</em>, a week, a month), the app calculates how many <span class='_paradigm'>RAD</span>s those recognized contributions translate to. That many <span class='_paradigm'>RAD</span>s are given to each of the contributing co-owners.</p>
 <p><span class='_paradigm'>RAD</span>s are cummulative, so each cycle adds to existing <span class='_paradigm'>RAD</span>s.</p>
 
<h1>Shares Tired, RADs Wired</h1>
 <p>As I mentioned, <span class='_paradigm'>Radical</span>-based companies don&rsquo;t have shares. Ownership is based on recognized contributions, not capital</p>
 <p>Shares are a 16<sup>th</sup> century invention that worked pretty much as <span class='_paradigm'>RAD</span>s, with one significant difference: shares are based on <em>capital</em> while <span class='_paradigm'>RAD</span>s are based on <em>recognized contributions</em>. But they are both ways to create something bigger than one person could.</p>
 <p>Business shares must have sounded crazy, like <span class='_paradigm'>RAD</span>s sound today. The clientele for shares back then already were risk takers and it was a smaller audience. The audience for <span class='_paradigm'>RAD</span>s is everybody who have been trained since birth to work for a wage and leave everything else to the oligarchic owners. On the other hand with have more educate people who sense that the current system is not working for them.</p>

<h1>Decentralized Ownership</h1>
 <p>Decentralized ownership is sustainable. The company is not dependent on a top boss. It is forever flexible.</p>
 <p>Decentralized ownership lasts&hellip; forever. For one, there is no issue of inheritance</p>
 <p>&nbsp;</p>

<h1>Co-ownership is dynamic</h1>
 <p>Say in January you make a lot of contributions that are recognized by your peers. Your <span class='_paradigm'>RAD</span>s go up quite a bit. But in February you are down to routine things. You get a few recognized contributions, but not many. Your <span class='_paradigm'>RAD</span>s go up a bit, but not much.</p>
 <p>In March you and your team give talks about the projects you just finished and how it is going to reduce costs significantly. You recognized contributions go up and so do your <span class='_paradigm'>RAD</span>s. Then you go on vacation in April. Your <span class='_paradigm'>RAD</span>s stay the same but the total RADs go up (<em>e.g.</em>, more people) so your porcentage of revenue go down.</p>
 <p>Your level of revenue ownership bobs up and down depending on 1) the contributions you make, and 2) how many of those are recognized by your peers.</p>
 <p>The same is going on for every co-owner and their level of revenue ownership changes.</p>

<h1>No Get-Rich-Quick Scheme</h1>
 <p>In our <span class='_paradigm'>Fiat</span> worlf, owning a business is the way to accumulate a lot of money. You pay yourelf well and keep the dividends. If you are lucky, somebody buys your company and you make a big lump sum. In the <span class='_paradigm'>Radical</span>-based apprach, this is not it.</p>
 <p>You accumulate <span class='_paradigm'>Fiat</span> money by keeping the wealth that other people created. Yes, you pay them good wages to do so, but you keep the bulk of the value they create. In the <span class='_paradigm'>Radical</span>-based space you get paid according to the contributions that your peer co-owners recognize.</p>

<h1>Rewards for Contributions</h1>
 <p>that are recognizable to your peer co-owners.</p>
 <p>&nbsp;</p>

<h1>Capital</h1>
 <p><span class='_quotespan'>But, I need capital. That is the normal way to get started!</span></p>
 <p>Capital still has a role to play, but it doesn&rsquo;t get power over the company, the community.</p>
 <p>&nbsp;</p>

<h1>No Forever Shares</h1>
 <p>A co-owned company doesn&rsquo;t give out &ldquo;forever&rdquo; shares in exchange for capital because it doesn&rsquo;t have any to give!</p>
 <p>&nbsp;</p>

<h1>What&rsquo;s the Catch?</h1>
 <p>What is the catch? Sounds like you want to pay people less!</p>
 <p>&nbsp;</p>

{% include related.html %}