---
layout:   post
title:    "It&rsquo;s a Start"
subtitle: "TEMPLATE"
authors:  "Matt Perez"
image:    "icon-sf-its-a-start.svg"
---

<div style="display: none;">
 <p>How did it all start?&mdash;Ignatious repeated&mdash;Let me tell you what we witnessed and what it felt like&hellip;</p>
</div>

<h1>A Tale of Two Systems</h1>
 <p>Ignatius, had lived in a <span class="_paradigm">FIAT</span> community called the Bracia.  Kal lived in several <span class="_paradigm">RADICAL</span> ones throughout the world. They both witnessed the transformation that the world went through, but from very different points of view, different beliefs. So, when the kid said, &ldquo;Nah. It smells like Science Fiction to me,&rdquo; they just looked at each other.</p>
 <p>&ldquo;We lived through it,&rdquo; Kal said. &ldquo;He grew up in the <span class="_paradigm">FIAT</span> side, and I grew up in <span class="_paradigm">RADICAL</span> communities.&rdquo; Keep in mind that Ignatius was 83 and Kal 72, so to the kid, they weren&rsquo;t that old. So he just said, &ldquo;Bullshit!&rdquo;</p>
 <p>&ldquo;He reminds me of you, Iggy, such facility with words&rdquo;&mdash;Kal was all smiles as she said it.</p>
 <p>The kid, who seem to be around 12 years old, had no idea what was going on, but he doubled down: &ldquo;Bullshit and more bulshit! Things have been this way since before you were born.&rdquo;</p>
 <p>Usually Kal was the calm one, but she was getting visibly angry. Ignatius put his hand on her shoulder and said, &ldquo;Well, now we know how he <em>really</em> feels, right?&rdquo; said Ignatious. He then looked at the kid and asked, &ldquo;Would you tell us your name?&rdquo;</p>
 <p>The kid just stared at him, befuddled.</p>

<h1>Shall We Dance?</h1>
 <p>Iggy insisted, &ldquo;Would you like to hear what we have to tell?&rdquo;</p>
 <p>He waited a bit and then continued, &ldquo;Things have not <em>always</em> been this way. In fact, most people thought that the transformation would not happen at all, that we would never get to this point. But it did happen, and it happened faster than anybody thought.&rsquo;</p>
 <p>Iggy continued, &ldquo;It turned out that most people knew at some level that the <span class="_paradigm">FIAT</span> system was <em>not working for them</em>. They just didn&rsquo;t know that it wasn&rsquo;t working for <em>so many</em> people. But we were already connnected worldwide and once we had the words and a story to tell, it spread quickly. And once they experience the difference at work, they could not go back. Their experience they had in co-managed and co-owned companies was unlike anything they had experienced before. But not everbody had the chance to experience it first hand, so they clung to their fears and defended the very system that was not working for them or for the planet.&rdquo;</p>
 <p>&ldquo;By the way, in those days, before the transformation happened, I would have hit you for the response you gave us. You showed us disrepect and we would have been in our right to castigate you for it, even hit you.&rdquo;</p>
 <p>&lsquo;But you didn&rsquo;t <em>earn</em> my respect. You took me for granted and started spewing what sounded a lot like BS to me.&rdquo;</p>
 <p>&ldquo;And you are correct! We made a lot of assumptions add didn&rsquo;t bother to involve you. We lectured, and you got angry, as well you should. You, too, made a lot of assumptions and shouted &lsquo;<em>bullshit!</em>&rsquo;&mdash;a short lecture, so to speak. It sounds like we all made similar mistakes. Would you agree?&rdquo;</p>
 <p>Kal stared at Iggy, dumbfounded. Normally <em>she</em> was calm and Ignatius was not&mdash;in fact, he was pugnacious. His behavior took her completely, and pleasantly, by surprise.</p>
 <p>Evidently, the kid was surprised, too. &ldquo;Ariel. My name is Ariel.&rdquo; And with that he sat down on the same spot he had been standing. He fixed his eyes on Iggy as he sat down on the floor, facing Ariel.</p>
 <p>I am going to tell you my story. What I lived through. I am going to talk about what I know first hand, from my own experience. Is that OK with you?</p>
 <p>&ldquo;She looks like she wants to hit me,&rdquo; Ariel said as he looked at Kal with an impish look on his face.</p>
 <p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t think she will,&rdquo; said Ignatius, &ldquo;And, since you are interested, her name is Kal and her story is much better than mine. So&hellip; should we start?&rdquo;</p>
 <p>&ldquo;Go ahead.&rdquo;</p>

<h1>Iggy&rsquo;s Tale</h1>
 <p>&ldquo;Several communities were more like the one I grew up in, although not as extreme and disconnected, as it turned out. About the time When I was born, the <span class="_paradigm">FIAT</span> way of life was already losing its grip on people. At least, that is what they told me when I got to this side. What I do know is that we were very poor&hellip; .&rdquo; Iggy seemed to have a realization and asked, &ldquo;Do you know what poor is?&rdquo;</p>
 <p>&ldquo;Having enough <spa class="_paradigm">RAD</span>s to survive, just barely.&rdquo; From the look on his face, Ariel must have thought it was a dumb question.</p>
 <p>&ldquo;That&rsquo;s what it means now, but not what I am talking about. For one, do you know any poor families?&rdquo;</p>
 <p>&ldquo;Of course not. There are no &lsquo;poor&rsquo; families.&ldquo; Said Ariel, clearly annoyed. &rdquo;Was that a &lsquo;clever&rsquo; question?&rsquo; he gestured. &ldquo;You must think I am really ignorant!&rdquo;</p>
 <p>&ldquo;No, not ignorant, just a child of your time.&rsquo; The kid was very quick and he understood that &lsquo;child&rsquo; didn&rsquo;t refer to his age. Iggy went on, &ldquo;Well, my family was poor. Very poor. They had no&hellip; they didn&rsquo;t have enough to eat, so  they encumbered me and my siblings to the military&hellip; &rdquo;</p>
 <p>&ldquo;Wait! What does that even mean? Not having enough to eat?&rdquo;</p>
 <p>&ldquo;&hellip; which meant that I had to go to military school and when I turned 16 I would become active in the military. And for that the Bracia would provide them with enough to survive.&rdquo;</p>
 <p>Arial remained quiet for quite for a bit, eyes glazed over. Then he asked, &ldquo;You were in the military?&rdquo;</p>

<h1>Leased to the Military</h1>
 <p>&ldquo;My brother and I were basically leased out to the military in exchange for subsistance for my family. It may sound amanzin now, but my parents were also devout defenders of the Bracia. In fact, my whole family, including me, were devount defenders of it! We believed that our being <em>poor</em> was out fault and the Bracia was giving us a chance to survive, but we had to be good and obedient.&rdquo;</p>
 <p>Kal had heard pieces of Iggy&rsquo;s story over time, but she had the feeling that this time she was going to hear the whole thing, from beginning to end and all little details in btween. &ldquo;The real story is how the Bracia got us there. For some reason, we attracted the worst of the people who depended on the <span class="_paradigm">FIAT</span> status quo. First we got people from what used to be the United States of America.&rdquo;</p>
 <p>Ariel looked around and moved a little when a boy and a girl approached and ended up sitting next to him. He snorted in response to Iggy mentioning the &ldquo;USA&rdquo;, maybe as a signal to his friends. &ldquo;The USA was the cause of all problems&rdquo;</p>

<h1>A Hypothesis</h1>
 <p>&ldquo;No, it wasn&rsquo;t,&rdquo; Iggy responded. &ldquo;Wait, you were told this? And you just took it at face value? Surprising because you are pretty good at asking questions.&rdquo;</p>
 <p>&ldquo;Well, no, not really,&rdquo; said the kid, &ldquo;but it felt like a sound hypothesis&rdquo;</p>
 <p>&ldquo;Ah, OK. But it is not,&rdquo; Iggy looked relieved. &ldquo;But you were ready for that answer, right?&rdquo; now Iggy was smiling.</p>
 <p>&ldquo;It was <em>the <span class="_paradigm">FIAT</span> system.</em> Iggy said. &ldquo;The system of super-centralized ownership, the system of bosses and wages, the system of competition and dominance. The system, do you understand?&rdquo; Iggy had to stop to calm down. &ldquo;If anything, it was the USA that ended up showing the world the way out. It had such a big influence and the <span class="paradigm">RADICAL</span> model spread throughout the world. The USA system of government allowed for changes, but the reason it was moving slowly is that the politicians were waiting for the whole country, all at once, to vote for it. Just imagine: they were trying to get more than half-billion people to move in one direction. Unfortunately, on our way there we would have depleted the Earth of the very resources we needed to live.&rdquo;</p>
 <p>The new boy made a soft sound and then he said, &ldquo;You sayin&lsquo; that we&rsquo;d&rsquo;ve run out of resources to support the majority of people, but some would have survived, right?&rdquo;</p>
 <p>&ldquo;Well&hellip; yes and no. It depends on what you mean by &lsquo;survive.&rsquo; Some people would survive, but all our cultural advances would go down the drain along with a depleted Earth.&rdquo; Iggy had to take a deep breath. &ldquo;What I heard many people say&mdash;and keep ih mind that I heard it from <em>devout <span class="_paradigm">FIAT</span> people</em>&mdash;is that the USA would have gotten there, but &lsquo;there was no need to rush things&rsquo; or &lsquo;people needed time to adapt.&rsquo; They were still thinking of centralized governments and nation state. What they ignored is that the abuse and depletion of resources was accelerating and we didn&rsquo;t have time for them <em>to accept the changes needed</em> at their leisure.&rdquo;</p>
 <p>This time it was the girl who asked, &ldquo;And so, these <span class="_paradigm">FIAT</span> people, they just accepted it? Just like that?&rdquo;</p>
 <p>&ldquo;No, not quite,&rdquo; Iggy said. &ldquo; Not everybody came up with their own solutions at once, some took longer than others. The feeling of superiority, and the fear of losing it, is more potent than a drug. Lot of them joined the Bracia, where I come from, and few other places like it. The other folks, the ones who understood that a change was needed, there was nothing stopping them from doing whatever they wanted within their companies, so people started to transform them. Many created companies that were based on co-management and co-ownership from the start. Others went along with the transformation of their existing businesses when they saw how much wealth these companies created. They had to give up their feeling of superiority, but they got back time that they could spend on themselves and with their families. And nobody missed the unhealthy competition&mdash;it took a lot of stress out of the system. People were better at collaborating once they were working on what they wanted to work on and with whom they wanted to work.&rdquo;</p>

<h1>Salutations</h1>
 <p>The girl again, &ldquo;Are you saying that you were forced to work with people you didn&lsquo;t know them?&hellip; what if you didn&rsquo;t trust them? And, my name is Karla, with a K. You can call me Kay.&rdquo;</p>
 <p>Kal smiled and said, &ldquo;And mine is Kalisha, also with a K, and everybody calls me Kal. And this, &hellip;&rdquo; she said pointing to Ignatius, &ldquo;&hellip; is Ignatius, or Iggy, as we call him.&rdquo;</p>
 <p>The boy got up from the floor, bobbed a curtsy, and said, &ldquo;I&rsquo;ll join in the salutations and announce that my name is Bob. Well, Roberto, but I respond to Bob, or Beto, or Bobby, or anything that sounds like it.&rdquo; With that, he bobbed another curtsy and plopped down on the floor.</p>
 <p>Before Iggy could get started again, Kal looked up and then said, &ldquo;The sun is starting to set and it&rsquo;s going to get much cooler quickly. We are going to that house, would you like to come with us.&rdquo;</p>
 <p>Ariel took a quick look at his friends and said, &ldquo;If you promise not to throw us in a cauldron and eat us and Iggy can keep keep talking, we will follow you.&rdquo;</p>
 <p>&ldquo;Oh, so you remember the children&rsquo;s story of how <span class="_paradigm">FIAT</span> started. How sweet!&rdquo;</p>

<h1>Transformations</h1>
 <p>They got to the house and after a bit of hesitation, Bob offered to cook for everybody. Iggy walked him towards the kitchen and they proceeded to pull out pots and pans and generally made a lot of noise.</p>
 <p>When the noise quieted down, Kay asked, &ldquo;Iggy should we wait for you or are you going to continue while cooking?&rdquo;</p>
 <p>&ldquo;Not sure. What do you want to know?&rdquo; Iggy said as he and Bob continued with their cooking.</p>
 <p>&ldquo;Well&hellip; How did the transformation get started?&rdquo;</p>
 <p>&ldquo;Perfect timing, because I can not speak to that first hard, but Kal can!&rdquo;</p>
 <p>All eyes turned to Kal, and even Bob stood by the kitchen door. &ldquo;OK, I am game.&rdquo; Kal said that and got quiet, looking down. &ldquo;First of all, I was a little kid. A precocious little kid, but still you have to take everything I say with grain of salt.&rdquo;</p>
 <p>&ldquo;Don&rsquo;t worry,&rdquo; Ariel said from the kitchen door, &ldquo;We are taking everything you and Iggy say with a grain of salt, as you said,&rdquo; he said while holding a bag of salt in his hand.</p>
 <p>&ldquo;Good.&rdquo; Kal took a breath and then she said, &ldquo;It depends. I&rsquo;ll go in the order I remembered, more or less. The first thing is that there were lots of startups that got started with co-ownership and made a big deal of it. For a while it was their differentiating feature. They knew they were pioneering the movement away from <span class="_paradigm">FIAT</span> and they were very loud about it.&rdquo;</p>
 <p>&ldquo;The first one I remembered was a little business doing translations, or interpretations, as they called it. Not sure what it was really called, but my Great Grandpa always referred to it as <span style="font-size:smaller; ">r</span>CORE. The founder had to leave Venezuela after the President became a dictator and pushed him and a bunch of people like him out. In any case, he was a ploglot, so when he landed in the USA, he set up this translation business. When he understood the <span class="_paradigm">RADICAL</span> model he was very enthusiastic and jumped righ on it. It took a while, but eventually they went from a bunch of independents scraping for anything that looked like revenue, to a group of co-owners. The <em>company</em> exploded. Other interpreters started using the model and the tools that cCORE had developed. Then, they started to collaborate with each other. Lots of tools were developed, and they could support just about anything that their clients needed. In about four years, they eclipsed most of the <span class="_paradigm">FIAT</span> business in that space, including some big ones.&rdquo; Kal&rsquo;s eyes glazed over and she got teary eyed. &ldquo;My great-grandpa was so nice. But he dod get to see how the <span class="_paradigm">FIAT</span> system got pushed further and further in the background. Fortunatly, he did not get to see the Bracia at its strongest. They were so violent.&rdquo;</p>

<h1>Violence</h1>
 <p>&ldquo;Tell us about the violence&hellip; ,&rdquo; Kay said quietly.</p>
 <p>Kal look his way, but she was somewhere deep inside herself. Then she focused and she said, &ldquo;OK, but I&rsquo;ll tell you about another kind of violence. They kind that I experienced.</p>
 <p>&ldquo;My parent and I were visiting friends who had this house on a sleepy beach town. They promised us that other than jumping in the water and playing in the sand, it was going to be <em>very</em> boring. And they were right: it was boring. But it was fun, too.&rdquo; Kal flashed a smile, and then, just as quickly, become somber.</p>
 <p>&ldquo;About a couple of nights of our being with them, we heard a party starting at the house next door. Soon the adults closed the door because between the loud music and the wild laughter they couldn&rsquo;t hear theselves talk. One of the boys was looking out the window and urgently signaled us to come over. As we pushed our faces on the glass, he pointed and we saw an electric pick up&mdash;there weren&rsquo;t that many back then&mdash;right under our balcony. And there was another one, on the other side of the house next door.Then the boy whispered, &lsquo;did you see the rifles?&rsquo; So, I looked again and I saw them.&rdquo; Kal opened her eyes as if she was living the moment. &ldquo;Except they were not just rifles, the were automatic weapons! The kind that can fire one bullet after another.&rdquo;</p>
 <p>&ldquo;We <em>know</em> about automatic weapons and have even tried them out.&rdquo;, said Kay.</p>
 <p>&ldquo;In any case, I told them and we all got very excited. Our parents noticed and they started to come over. To avoid any more excitement, I did my best to look bored and walked away from the balcony window. My friends got the hint and they all walked away to various places in the house, but we all ended up in the my friend&rsquo;s parents&rsquo; bedroom which also had a view to the beach. But that was it, nothing happened that night.&rdquo;</p>
 <p>The point of this story is that even as <span class="_paradigm">FIAT</span> was receding and <span class="_paradigm">RADICAL</span> was advancing, some people couldn&rsquo;t let go of violence. And there were others that resulted in people getting hurt and even killed. But that didn&rsquo;t last for long, thankfully. Eventually there weren&rsquo;t enough people deperate enough to become &lsquo;soldiers&rsquo;. They could live better by joining with their friends and doing something meaningful together and earning ownership of something valuable to the world. That type of lethal violence eventually died down, but it took a while.&rdquo;</p>
 <p>Bob asked, &ldquo;OK, but, how did <span class="_paradigm">RADICAL</span> take hold?&rdquo;</p>

<h1><span style="font-size:smaller; ">r</span>Xipe</h1>
 <p>&ldquo;Well, there was <span style="font-size:smaller; ">r</span>CORE which Iggy talked about a bit. At about the same time, there was <span style="font-size:smaller; ">r</span>Xipe, a software company in Mexico,&rdquo; said Kal. &ldquo;It was named after some kind of Aztec diety associated with fertility and rebirth. It was the right name, because <span style="font-size:smaller; ">r</span>Xipe helped other <span class="_paradigm">RADICAL</span> software companies get started and a movement get going. The company got started a few years before I knew of them, but they were known for creating all kinds of tools for the <span class="_paradigm">RADICAL</span> ecosystem. They also, like <span style="font-size:smaller; ">r</span>CORE, collaborated with other software companies that wanted to get on the <span class="_paradigm">RADICAL</span> direction. It was incredible how fast it all went.</p>
 <p>&ldquo;They made the firsst application for <span class="_paradigm">RAD</span>s distribution, right?&rdquo; Ariel, yelled from the kitchen.</p>
 <p>&ldquo;Yep. That.&rdquo; Kal continue, &ldquo;And many other software tools. But their contribution was more along the lines of how well it worked out for them. It wasn&rsquo;t just &lsquo;practices&rsquo; or anything like. It was genuine.&rdquo; Kal got up and continued, &ldquo;They had not started that way. But the founder and the people working there were growing unhappy. One day, the founder spoke with everybody explaining the change he proposed to make. They walked away from paying customers and instead found clients who wanted to come along on the Xipe journey. They challenged their new clients and together found spots where they could be different, differentiate themselves, and wiht, personally and, of course, financially.&rdquo;
 <p>&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know about you, but I have to go to the bathroom.&rdquo; Kal said as she headed away.</p> 
 <p>Eventually, they call came back, with hot food, and sat around Kal, while Iggy stayed in the kitchen cleaning up the mess he and Bob had made. &ldquo;Have you had enough or should I continue to tell you about the early companies?&rdquo;</p>
 <p>&ldquo;Keep going!&rdquo; was the general response.</p>
 <p>&ldquo;Well,&rdquo; Kal started, &ldquo;larger, more established companies started to transform, too. They noticed the financial success of the smaller companies, like rCORE and rXipe. This got the owners of larger businesses to jump on the bandwagon. Many had no idea what they were getting into and they gave it lip service and made some changes, but kept centralized control. They thought that would be enough, but it wasn&rsquo;t and there were many conflict.&rdquo; Kal thought about it and corrected herself, &ldquo;Lots of them, actually.&rdquo; She stopped, ate, and drank her agua de mango, Iggy&rsquo;s specialty.</p>
 <p>&ldquo;Many others saw the value that it brought to themselves. They realized and appreciated how it afforded them to spend time with their families and do other things. Most made a complete transformation. They created templates for other to follow and became mentorsfor. That&rsquo;s what made <span class="_paradigm">RADICAL</span> become mainstream, leaving <span class="_paradigm">FIAT</span> to take a back seat.</p>
 <p>Kal smiled to herself and said, &ldquo;I remember my mom coming home from an interview and complaning that, &lsquo;They just wanted me to be a cog in <em>their</em> machine. They said that they were going to be generous with bonuses. Bonuses? What do these people&hellip; have they been living under a rock? It reminds me of the people that insisted on getting paople back to offices after the &rsquo;19 pandemic. You do know about the &rsquo;19 pandemic, yes?&rdquo;</p>
 <p>&ldquo;Aye, milady: the pandemic with a mightily botched response&hellip;&rdquo; said Bob in his pseudo-18th lingo. &ldquo;&hellip;We&rsquo;ve heard of it, I do declare.&rdquo;</p>

<h1>Qualia</h1>
 <p>Kal&rsquo;s face brightened up and said, &ldquo;The transformation I remember most vividly was Qualia&rsquo;s.&rdquo; She noticed the lack of reaction from her audience and she said, &ldquo;OK, back story first. My parents were really enthusiastic about <span class="_paradigm">RADICAL</span> and wanted to help all they could and see it happen sooner rather than later. They moved south of here, to what was then Mexico, where there was <em>a lot</em> of <span class="_paradigm">RADICAL</span> acitivity.&rdquo;</p>
 <p>Kal took some plates to the kitchen. She came back with Iggy and she contiued. &ldquo;Qualia had existed for a while, but then the owners decided to go full co-management. It wasn&rsquo;t called that back then, but that&rsquo;s what it was. On their own, they transformed the company &lsquo;co-management&rsquo; back then, but that is what it was. In any case, they wanted to remove the <span class="_paradigm">FIAT</span> hierarchy they had in place, and go totally decentralized. It took them a few years, but they created the playbook for other companies to follow. They cloned Cuban and Puerto Rican papaya seeds and sold them. That means that the fruit itself was kept as fertilizer and for kids, like me, who <em>loved</em> eating them. I still love papaya.&rsquo; Kal was beaming as if she were tasting the righ tropical fruit. My grandfather was from the island of Cuba and my grandma from Puerto Rick so that made it even more exciting.</p>
 <p>&ldquo;In any case&hellip; eventually they turned to co-ownership. T&iacute;o Pancho, the owner, realized that they were stuck. Co-management was going well, the roles were fluid, they were learning from each other, except&hellip; people left because of money. T&iacute;o Pancho had to get involved in <em>because</em>, he was the principle owner. And he was getting tired of doing that. He felt that people should be able to do it, in fact all he did was asked people what he should and he would mostly go along with it. The other thing is that the folks valued his attaboys most, probably because they thoungt that would benefit them financially later.&rdquo;</p>
 <p>Kal shrugged her shoulders and continued, &ldquo;He realized that it all had to do with his &ldquo;owner&rdquo; status and he decided to change it. Fortunately, Xipe had already published the <em><span class="_paradigm">RAD</span>s!</em> application, uncle started promote its use at Qualia.&rdquo;</p>
 <p>&ldquo;<em>T&iacute;o</em> means <em>uncle</em> in Spanish,&rdquo; Bod said.</p>
 <p>Kal continued, &ldquo;Yes, right. They did it by taking small bites. First they tried it with bonuses and then people started to use to see if the contributions that were recognized through the <span class="_paradigm">RAD</span>s! app supported their pay. After all, that&rsquo;s what take home pay should be related to: contributions, right? When they realized the disparities, they insisted on trying it out for real. Full co-ownership just happened after that and T&iacute;o Pancho felt much better, being off &lsquo;the owner&rsquo; leash. He was still thinking of how to deal with the legal ownership aspect, but people got ahead of him.  They asked him what his effort as onwner was worth and agree to pay him and his partner in three years. They then put up one <span class="_paradigm">BANNER</span> to the company and put up another to reward them for their more intangible contributions. A lot of other companies followed that path and transformed away from <span class="_paradigm">FIAT</span>.&rdquo;</p>
 <p>&ldquo;I have another example,&rdquo; Iggy said. &ldquo;Kal knows all about it.&rdquo;</p>

<h1>CIH Schook (Kinda)</h1>
 <p>&ldquo;The Community of Innovative Humans,&rdquo; said Iggy.</p>
 <p>&ldquo;Never heard of it.&rdquo; Ariel seemed to take special pleasure in playing the contrarian to whatever Iggy said.</p>
 <p>&ldquo;That says a lot about you.&rdquo; Iggy said. He smiled and waited a little before saying, &ldquo;Smart ass.&rdquo; It seemed that <em>this</em> is what went on in the kitchen.</p>
 <p>Kal pick up on her queue, &ldquo;Whether you heard of CIH or not, it holds a very key position in the transformation from <span class="_paradigm">FIAT</span>. They kids that went to those schools came out as <span class="_paradigm">RADICAL</span> natives. There were many schools that were about empowering the children and the move away from <span class="_paradigm">FIAT</span> made it easier for them to do so. For one, the kids coming out of those schools didn&rsquo;t have to hesitate when asked what school did they went to. CIH was aimed at older kids and that means that it accelerated the transformation from <span class="_paradigm">FIAT</span>.&rdquo; ALso, they took what they had learned and guided and mentored many business in their transformation. It was amazing to watch them learn constantly&mdash;and I mean the adults. The adolescents thought that was <em>normal</em>.&rdquo;</p>
 <p>&ldquo;Did it start near here?&rdquo; Kay asked.</p>
 <p>&ldquo;Actually, no,&rdquo; Kal said, &ldquo;In spite of their name, they started in the city of Guadalajara, in what was then Mexico. I lived several years there, that&rdquo;s why Iggy said that I knew all about it. It is really pretty there. There is a huge lake near the city, lake Chapala, that my parents and I loved to go to.&rdquo;</p>
 <p>&ldquo;I got to meet her parents and they were something else, the were&hellip; exceptional.&rdquo;</p>
 <p>Ariel started to say, &ldquo;How except&hellip; .&rdquo;</p>
 <p>&ldquo;Save it, Ariel,&rdquo; Bob interjected.</p>
 <p>&ldquo;They were.&rdquo; Iggy continued. &ldquo; Even in their old age, they worked tirelessly to make the transformation from <span class="_paradigm">FIAT</span> go quickly and thoroughly.&rdquo;</p>
 <p>&ldquo;They were from the islands of Cuba and Puerto Rico?&rdquo; Bob asked.</p>

<h1>Cuba y Puerto Rico son&hellip;</h1>
 <p>&ldquo;Nol. Those were my gandparents on my father&rdquo;s side.&rdquo; Kal clarified. &ldquo;They were even more intense than my dad. You couldn't say <em>good morning</em> to my grandpa without getting to hear why moving away from FIAT was a necessity and all that. All true, but he was really intense, as Iggy said.&rdquo;s He co-wrote one of the first book on the need for transformation. He really believed that if we had not done, we would ended the Anthopocene.&rdquo;</p>
 <p>This time one it was Bob who interjected, &ldquo;The antho-po-WHAT?&rdquo;</p>
 <p>&ldquo;The era of humankind. A major division of time, a subset of an eon. The anthroponcene. The era we are, fortunately, in right now&rdquo;</p>
 <p>&ldquo;The era of humankind. A major division of time, a subset of an eon. The anthroponcene. The era we are, fortunately, in right now&rdquo;</p>
 <p>Kay looked somewhat upset and said, &ldquo;We kbow what an &lsquo;era&rsquo; is. I had just never heard the term <em>anthopocene</em> before, that&rsquo;s all.&rdquo;</p>
 <p>Kal looked repentant, &ldquo;Sorry. I didn&rsquo;t mean to lecture <em>at you</em>. But I've had to explain what <em>anthropocene</em> means almost every time I bring it up.&rdquo;</p>
 <p>&ldquo;Then, maybe you should not use it.&rsquo; Kay said quietly.</p>
 <p>&ldquo;You&rsquo;re right,&rdquo; Kal said. &ldquo;In any case, we were moving down the path of self-extintion and many people, including my grandparents and my parents, worked really hard to help us move to a different path. And the transformation took care of many other problems. For example, in the <span class="_paradigm">FIAT</span> system, you guys would be in a room called <em>a classroom</em>, sitting with a lot of other kids of the same age, mostly learning to be quite and obedient.&rdquo;</p>
 <p>As Ariel was coming back from the bathroom, he said, &ldquo;I have a question!&rdquo;</p>

<h1>Then, Why&hellip; ?</h1>
 <p>&ldquo;Why&hellip; ?&rdquo; Ariel looked at Bob. Then he coninued, &ldquo;&hellip; did the Bracia survive for so long?&rdquo;</p>
 <p>&ldquo;I think this one&rsquo; for you, Iggy&rdquo; Kal said.</p>
 <p>&ldquo;Luck!&rdquo; Iggy said. &ldquo;They weren&rsquo;t the only community that attracted desperate people to do their bidding and work as soldiers. They weren&rsquo;t the only one to sell faux-nostalgia and thoughts of &lsquo;making our country great again.&rsquo;  They weren&rsquo;t the only alone in coming up with their own religion. And they weren&rsquo;t the only ones to distribute highly addictive drugs and passing them as <em>healthcare</em>. But I think they were the one uber-<span class="_paradigm">FIAT</span> community to put all these tricks together. I really don&rsquo;t know first hand how it developed, but I know if was a magnet for <span class="_paradigm">FIAT</span> believers. My family was typical.</p>
 <p>His eyes looked unfocused and he suddenly looked tired and sad. &ldquo;On the one hand exploited by the Bracia and, on the other, tireless defenders of the Bracia. I don&rsquo;t remember anymore, but I was a defender, too. That is, until I met Petra.&rdquo;</p>
 <p>Iggy looked at Ariel and said, &ldquo;You remind me a lot of her. She was a pain, too, but she wanted out. Badly. She managed to convince our whole squad to make a break for it. We did escape, and that is why I am here. Unfortunately, most of the group decided to go back. They were going crazy not having anybody to tell them what to do. We expected bloodthirsty monsters, and instead we got kindness from everybody. It was disconcerting.&rdquo;</p>
 <p>He hesitated, but then he continued. &ldquo;My brother went back with them and was tortured to death. I had my friend Petra, and sticking with her saved my life.&rdquo;</p>
 <p>&ldquo;And I had just left Mexico with my parents,&rdquo; Kal said. &ldquo;I met Iggy not that long after he escaped the Bracia. He left for a while, but when he came back we got together and have been traveling together every since.&rdquo;</p>
 <p>Kal had an ear to ear smile on her face. And so did Iggy.</p>

<h1 class="_section">RELATED</h1>
 <ul>
  <li>RADICAL COMPANIES,</li>
   <ul>
    <li><a>English</a>: <a href="https://radicalcompanies.com" target="_blank">&hellip;/https://radicalcompanies.com</a></li>
    <li><a>Spanish</a>: <a href="https://radicalcompanies.com" target="_blank">&hellip;/https://radicalcompanies.com</a></li>
   </ul>
  <li>Missing Chapters,</li>
   <ul>
    <li>For the Impatient: <a href="https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/05/03/radical-companies-for-the-impatient" target="_blank">https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/05/03/radical-companies-for-the-impatient</a></li>
    <li>Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ): <a href="https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/05/04/radical-companies-faq" target="_blank">https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/05/04/radical-companies-faq</a></li>
    <li><span style="font-size:smaller; ">r</span>Coin: <a href="https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/05/07/rcoin.html" target="_blank">https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/05/07/rcoin.html</a></li>
    <li>rLand: <a href="https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/05/06/rland.html" target="_blank">https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/05/06/rland.html</a></li>
    <li>rGov: <a href="https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/05/05/rgov.html" target="_blank">https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/05/05/rgov.html</a></li>
   </ul>
   <li>Blog Posts <a href="https://radicalcompanies.com/blog/" target="_blank">https://radicalcompanies.com/blog/</a></li>
   <li>rEnsembles,</li>
    <ul>
     <li> rStayHome: <a href="https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/05/12/rStayHome" target="_blank">https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/05/12/rStayHome</a></li>
     <li>     rKare: <a href="https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/05/13/rKare" target="_blank">https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/05/13/rKare</a></li>
     <li>    rClean: <a href="https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/05/14/rClean" target="_blank">https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/05/14/rClean</a></li>
     <li>     rCORE: <a href="https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/05/15/rCORE" target="_blank">https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/05/15/rCORE</a></li>
     <li>rHatchery: <a href="https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/05/16/rHatchery" target="_blank">https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/05/16/rHatchery</a></li>
    </ul>
   <li>rStartups,</li>
    <ul>
     <li>rBuddyNeighbor: <a href="https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/05/17/rBuddyNeighbor" target="_blank">https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/05/17/rBuddyNeighbor</a></li>
     <li>   rHintersoft: <a href="https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/05/18/rHintersoft" target="_blank">https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/05/18/rHintersoft</a></li> 
     <li>   rNextBright: <a href="https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/05/19/rNextBright" target="_blank">https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/05/19/rNextBright</a></li>
    </ul>
   <li>rMEDIA,</li>
    <ul>
     <li> rReader: <a href="https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/04/01/rReader" target="_blank">https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/04/01/rReader</a></li>
     <li>  rShelf: <a href="https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/04/02/rShelf" target="_blank">https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/04/02/rShelf</a></li>
     <li>    rMBA: <a href="https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/04/03/rMBA" target="_blank">https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/04/03/rMBA</a></li>
     <li>  rLIVE!: <a href="https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/04/04/rLive" target="_blank">https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/04/04/rLive</a></li>
     <li>rCircuit: <a href="https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/04/05/rCircuit" target="_blank">https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/04/05/rCircuit</a></li>
     <li>rPlayGym: <a href="https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/04/06/rPlayGym" target="_blank">https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/04/06/rPlayGym</a></li>
     <li>  rMedia: <a href="https://radical-companies-repo/2022/04/06/rplaygym" target="_blank">https://radical-companies-repo/2022/04/06/rplaygym</a></li>
    </ul>
   <li>rProjects,</li>
    <ul>
     <li>      rMake!: <a href="https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/05/20/rmake" target="_blank">https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/05/20/rmake</a></li>
     <li>    rRemark!: <a href="https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/05/21/remark" target="_blank">https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/05/21/remark (API)</a></li>
     <li>       RADs!: <a href="https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/05/22/rads!" target="_blank">https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/05/22/rads! (App)</a></li>
     <li>Attentive UI: <a href="https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/05/23/attentive-ui" target="_blank">https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/05/23/attentive-ui</a></li>
    </ul>
   <li>rFiction,</li>
    <ul>
     <li>  First of Earth (11 episodes): <a href="https://radical-companies-repo/2022/03/01/E01-first-of-earth" target="_blank">https://radical-companies-repo/2022/03/01/E01-first-of-earth</a></li>
     <li>The FIAT Enclaves (3 episodes): <a href="https://2022/03/11/E11/the-fiat-enclaves" target="_blank">https://2022/03/11/E11/the-fiat-enclaves</a></li>
    </ul>
