---
layout:   post
title:    "rMEDIA"
subtitle: "TEMPLATE"
authors:  "Matt Perez"
image:    "pradera-background.svg"
---

<div style="display: none;">
 <p></p>
</div>

<h1>Intro</h1>
 <p>MoTown Records<sup id="fnref1"><a href="#fn1" rel="footnote">1</a></sup> came to be because Black American artists needed something fundamentally different than what the existing record labels offered.  MoTown promoted their music, their concept of music, their categories, and even their approach to it, more sensual and religious at the same time.  The existing labels were not capable of providing any of that, even with the best of intentions.</p>
 <p>As MoTown was to Black artists and their music, <span class="_paradigm">rMEDIA</span> is to <span class="_paradigm">RADICAL</span> authors and themes.</p>
<h1>Origin Story</h1>
 <p>The way it works now, publishers license your content and take on all the risk in exchange for selling your content under their ISBN.  You own the content, they own <em>only</em> the ISBN. The publisher also owns the brand which they have built over many years and this imprimatur shines a light on your content. At least, that’s the historical narrative, but today it has evolved into something different.</p>
 <p>Long story short, most authors make very little or no money from the sales of the book.  According to author Chuck Blakeman, “commissions are absurdly low, 8-11% generally. They can be delayed up to 30 months, after printing, distribution, and 12 months in bookstores.  Essentially, you become the bank for the publishers.” The publisher may or may not invest in any promotion.  In many cases, the publisher uses the content as a trial balloon, to see if it has traction.  If it does, they invest in promoting it, make a lot of money, and you may get some minor fame out of it and some speaking and consulting gigs.  If your content doesn’t show traction, then… that’s that.</p>
 <p>No matter, your book’s ISBN still belongs to them.  You “own” the content, but the publisher is the only one who can sell it.   According to Blakeman, “they own the ability to distribute [your content] for at least five years and you have no say in the use of it.”</p>
 <p>As publisher Joshua Volpara says it, “The important thing, to me, is not that publishers own the ISBN but that authors have granted [them] the right to economic exploitation over the work without limits of time, markets and even formats (<em>e.g.</em>, ebooks) or by-products (<em>e.g.</em>, movie screen-plays). Many times these limits are too loose and the deal becomes unfair.”</p>
 <p>And, worse, the book’s message doesn’t spread widely.</p>

<h1>Alignment</h1>
 <table>
  <tr>
   <th colspan="2" style="text-align:center; ">Impact</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <th>What for?</th>
   <td>
    <ul>
     <li>Create a source of information about the <span class="_paradigm">RADICAL</span>.</li>
     <li>rMEDIA becomes the MoTown  of <span class="_paradigm">RADICAL</span> content.</li>
    </ul>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td colspan="2" class="_spacer"></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <th colspan="2" style="text-align:center; ">Purpose</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <th>Why?</th>
   <td>
    <ul>
     <li>We want the world to recognize the <span class="_paradigm">FIAT</span> conditions they live in.</li>
     <li>Give people a choice to move away from <span class="_paradigm">FIAT</span> and towards a <span class="_paradigm">RADICAL</span> world.</li>
     <li>To spread <span class="_paradigm">RADICAL</span>-like ideas sooner, faster, and without debilitating compromises.</li>
    </ul>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td colspan="2" class="_spacer"></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <th colspan="2" style="text-align:center; ">Mission</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <th>What?</th>
   <td>
    <ul>
     <li>Become self-sustainable.</li>
     <li>Organized as a <span class="_paradigm">RADICAL</span> company.  Everybody who contributes (<em>e.g.</em>, authors, distributors, printers) participates in its ownership and the wealth it generates.</li>
    </ul>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <th>When?</th>
   <td>
    <ul>
     <li>Within 12 months.</li>
    </ul>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <th>How?</th>
   <td>
    <ul>
     <li>Create a Marketing and Sales flow.</li>
     <li>Leverage authors in the Marketing and Sales of the content.</li>
     <li>Establish a distinct and instantly recognizable brand.</li>
     <li>Experiment with different media for promotion and distribution.</li>
     <li>Virtual book clubs with authors, critics.</li>
     <li>Virtual debates, panels, interviews.</li>
    </ul>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td colspan="2" class="_spacer"></td>
  </tr>
 </table>

<h1>What's in It for&hellip; ?</h1>
 <p>Besides ownership and participation in the generated wealth, this is what people will get,</p>
 <table>
  <tr>
   <th>Authors</th>
   <td>
    <ul>
     <li>Promotion and exposure of their ideas, of themselves, of their content.</li>
     <li>Being an <span class="_paradigm">rMEDIA</span> author (<em>i.e.</em>, progressive, future positive).</li>
     <li>Thought leader of a recognized trope.</li>
    </ul>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td colspan="2" class="_spacer"></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <th>Content Editors, Layout Designers, Developers, Graphics Designers, Media Team, Producers</th>
   <td>
    <ul>
     <li>Doing what they love, without paying the <span class="_paradigm">FIAT</span> price.</li>
     <li>Doing it with a team of co-owners, responsible to each other.</li>
     <li>Able to experiment with the support of the team.</li>
    </ul>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td colspan="2" class="_spacer"></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <th>Translators, Verifiers</th>
   <td>
    <ul>
     <li>Learn what is perceived as a contribution.</li>
     <li>Champion your own notion of what represents a contribution from a translator or a verifier.</li>
    </ul>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td colspan="2" class="_spacer"></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <th>Marketing</th>
   <td>
    <ul> 
     <li>Learning from the ability to experiment with various media, different messages.</li>
     <li>Spreading the <span class="_paradigm">RADICAL</span> story, their story.</li>
     <li>Experimenting with different ways of getting the message out.</li>
    </ul>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td colspan="2" class="_spacer"></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <th>Sales</th>
   <td>
    <ul>
     <li>Learning from listening to different types of buyers.</li>
     <li>Learning what it takes to turn them into evangelists, not just book sellers.</li>
     <li>Spreading the <span class="_paradigm">RADICAL</span> story, their story.</li>
    </ul>
   </td>
  </tr>
 </table>
 caca1
 <table>
  <tr>
   <td colspan="2" class="_spacer"></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <th>Printers</td>
   <td>
    <ul>
     <li>Learning to take the friction out of printing books.</li>
     <li>They’ll hear, “we’ll help you compete with Amazon.”</li>
    </ul>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td colspan="2" class="_spacer"></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <th>Distributors</th>
   <td>
    <ul>
     <li>Learning to take the friction out of book distribution.</li>
     <li>They’ll hear, “we’ll help you compete with Amazon.”</li>
    </ul>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td colspan="2" class="_spacer"></td>
  </tr>
 </table>
 caca2
 <table>
  <tr>
   <th>Small Bookshops</th>
   <td>
    <ul>
     <li>Learning to become impassionate evangelists, not just book sellers.</li>
     <li>Make more money from the content.
      <div style="font-size:25px; border:1px solid CadetBlue; background-color:beige; font-family:American Typewriter, serif; white-space:normal; padding:1em; margin-bottom:20px; ">
       &hellip; formerly the local stores in a small town competed sharply with one another. Now, … they are beginning to join in an effort to secure the trade of the outlying farming districts and of the summer residents who tend to buy from the city by mail order. They do this by saving capital through common store-houses, through dividing specialties and thus increasing stock without increasing expenditure, by improving local service through cooperative deliveries, etc.<sup id="fnref2"><a href="#fn2" rel="footnote">2</a></sup>
      </div>
     </li>
    </ul>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td colspan="2" class="_spacer"></td>
  </tr>
 </table>
 caca
 <table>
  <tr>
   <th>Big Book Chains</th>
   <td>
    <ul>
     <li>Be associated with a  unique, easily identifiable brand that belongs to all who contribute.</li>
     <li>They’ll have to win <span class="_paradigm">rMEDIA</span>&rsquo;s endorsement the <span class="_paradigm">FIAT</span> way. Unless they flip to the <span class="_paradigm">RADICAL</span> paradigm.</li>
    </ul>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td colspan="2" class="_spacer"></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <th><span class="_paradigm">rMEDIA</span></th>
   <td>
    <ul>
     <li>A much needed service centered on people to spread healing ideas, create content, and distribute it all far, wide. and fast.</li>
     <li><span class="_paradigm">rMEDIA</span> becomes a unique, easily recognized brand.</li>
    </ul>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td colspan="2" class="_spacer"></td>
  </tr>
</table>

<h1>From Cradle to Sales</h1>
 <h2>Book Preparation</h2>
  <table>
   <tr>
    <th>Onboarding</th>
    <td>
     <ul>
      <li>Teach new authors about the process. Point out that it will take lots of reviewing over and over.</li>
      <li>Profile the authors to co-figure out how much of the work below they are willing/capable to do.</li>
      <li>Training in the use of new tools (<em>e.g.</em>, InDesign, Jutoh, rMake).</li>
      <li>Mentoring (<em>i.e.</em>, tools to find  an experienced author).</li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td colspan="2" class="_spacer"></td>
   </tr>
 </table>
 caca
 <table>
   <tr>
    <th>Co-Editing</th>
    <td>
     <ul>
      <li>With an experienced editor from anywhere in the world.</li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td colspan="2" class="_spacer"></td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <th>Copy Editing</th>
    <td>
     <ul>
      <li>With copy editors from anywhere in the world.</li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td colspan="2" class="_spacer"></td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <th>Book Cover Co-Design</th>
    <td>
     <ul>
      <li>With designers from anywhere in the world.</li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td colspan="2" class="_spacer"></td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <th>Book Layout</th>
    <td>
     <ul>
      <li>With layout book designers  from anywhere in the world.</li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td colspan="2" class="_spacer"></td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <th>Text Formatting</th>
    <td>
     <ul>
      <li>With skilled people from anywhere in the world.</li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td colspan="2" class="_spacer"></td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <th>ISBNs</th>
    <td>
     <ul>
      <li>Acquisition and assignment of ISBN numbers.</li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td colspan="2" class="_spacer"></td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <th>Translations</th>
    <td>
     <ul>
      <li>With translators from anywhere in the world.</li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td colspan="2" class="_spacer"></td>
   </tr>
  </table>
  <p>At one end, authors could use the help of <span class="_paradigm">rMEDIA</span>; at the other they could do it themselves using the <span class="_paradigm">rMEDIA</span> infrastructure. Most likely they would choose a combination of these. For example, translations work better when the author works in tandem with the translator because the author can, in real time, clarify tricky phrasing, explain idiomatic phrases, or the why of a difficult paragraph.</p>
 <h2>Funding</h2>
  <table>
   <tr>
    <th>Crowdfunding</th>
    <td>
     <ul>
      <li>Provides the equivalent of an “advance” for co-authors who need the support upfront.</li>
      <li>Used to test the effectiveness of different types of promotions, descriptions, tags, etc.</li>
     </ul>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td colspan="2" class="_spacer"></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <th><span class="_paradigm">RADICAL</span> funding</th>
   <td>
    <ul>
     <li>An advance-as-investment up front for an agreed upon return.</li>
    </ul>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td colspan="2" class="_spacer"></td>
  </tr>
 </table>
<h2>Promoting</h2>
 <table>
  <tr>
   <th>Content Extraction</th>
   <td>
    <ul>
     <li>Creating extracts of the book for promotional content.</li>
     <li>Serialize (<em>e.g.</em>, Twitter, blogs).</li>
     <li>115-second videos.</li>
    </ul>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td colspan="2" class="_spacer"></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <th>Video</th>
   <td>
    <ul>
     <li>Short videos (<em>e.g.</em>115-second videos).</li>
     <li>Publish serial form of content/extracts.</li>
     <li>Run campaigns on Twitter, LinkedIn, etc.</li>
    </ul>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td colspan="2" class="_spacer"></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <th>Social Media</th>
   <td>
    <ul>
     <li>Run campaigns on Twitter, LinkedIn, etc.</li>
     <li>Publish serial form of content/extracts.</li>
    </ul>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td colspan="2" class="_spacer"></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <th>Advertising</th>
   <td>
    <ul>
     <li>For example, KDP ads.</li>
    </ul>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td colspan="2" class="_spacer"></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <th>Fame to Fortune</th>
   <td>Place authors as,
    <ul>
     <li>Keynotes, featured speakers.</li>
     <li>Podcast guests.</li>
     <li>The voice of courses and workshops.</li>
    </ul>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td colspan="2" class="_spacer"></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <th><span class="_paradigm">rLIVE</span></th>
   <td>
    <ul>
     <li>See <a href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NElxng620-FtPtk2s-2xizTcL_89LdqnpkZepsnf5RA/edit#heading=h.gqizizpnpgzu"><span class="_paradigm">rLIVE</span></a>.</li>
    </ul>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td colspan="2" class="_spacer"></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <th>In-store Promos</th>
   <td>
    <ul>
     <li>See <a href="#heading=h.8yqs9zy5std9">rSHELF</a>.</li>
    </ul>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td colspan="2" class="_spacer"></td>
  </tr>
 </table>
 <h2>Sales</h2>
  <tr>
   <th>Feet on the street</th>
   <td>
    <ul>
     <li>Sales to independent book sellers.</li>
     <li>Sales to large booksellers.</li>
     <li>Sales to airport booksellers.</li>
     <li>Bulk sales to corporations.</li>
     <li>Bulk sales to workshops and other venues.</li>
    </ul>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td colspan="2" class="_spacer"></td>
  </tr>

<!-- Footnotes themselves at the bottom. -->

<h2>Notes</h2>
<div class="footnotes">
<hr>
<ol><li id="fn1">
<h6>    
    	<a href="https://www.motownrecords.com/">Motown Records</a> site.</h6>

&nbsp;<a href="#fnref1" rev="footnote">&#8617;</a><li id="fn2">

<h6>    	Mary Parker Follett.  <a href="https://a.co/7rTNcYl">Creative Experience</a>.</h4>

&nbsp;<a href="#fnref2" rev="footnote">&#8617;</a>

</ol></div></p>

<h1 style="font-size:40px; font-family:Courier New, monospace; ">Alignment</h1>
 <p></p>

<h1 style="font-size:40px; font-family:Courier New, monospace; ">Origin Story</h1>
 <p></p>

<h1 style="font-size:40px; font-family:Courier New, monospace; ">Description</h1>
 <p></p>

<h1 style="font-size:40px; font-family:Courier New, monospace; ">Farm Programs</h1>
 <p></p>

<h1 style="font-size:40px; font-family:Courier New, monospace; ">Costs</h1>
 <p></p>

<h1 style="font-size:40px; font-family:Courier New, monospace; ">How It Works</h1>
 <p></p>

<h1 style="font-size:50px; font-family:Courier New, monospace; text-align:center; margin: 60 0 20 0; ">APPENDICES</h1>
<h2 style="font-size:30px; font-family:Courier New, monospace; ">Recruiting</h1>
 <ul>
  <li>From the moment a candidate voices an interest in joining the team, think of her as already in your team.</li>
  <li>You are not looking for ways to reject this candidate. Your job is to evaluate at what stage the candidate is in, figure out if you can help her grow, and then make a decision to hire or not.</li>
  <li>Interviewers self-select.</li>
  <li>Someone self-selects to act as lead, with the team’s consent.</li>
  <li>Tech Screen,</li>
   <ul>
    <li>Talk with the candidate for 15 minutes or less to determine whether she is up to the interview process.</li>
    <li>Either way, let the candidate know right away.</li>
    <li>If the candidate passes the screen, fix dates for all interviews.</li>
   </ul>
   <li>Schedule all subsequent interviews.</li>
   <li>Profile interview,</li>
    <ul>
     <li>Check for cultural alignment (<em>i.e.</em>, according to your Impact, Purpose, and Mission or whatever Alignment principles you use).</li>
     <li>Check for level of knowledge about Computer Science basics.</li>
     <li>Decide if a Task interview is appropriate. The candidate is part of this discussion.</li>
    </ul>
    <li>Task interview,</li>
     <ul>
      <li>For developers, this is done as a Pair Programming with pre-defined exercises for the appropriate stack. For manual testers, the candidate is given a scenario and asked to put together a test plan.</li>
      <li>Work and talk with the candidate.</li>
      <li>Offer hints (“I saw a thread in StackOverflow abou that”).</li>
      <li>Question/nudge as needed (“wouldn't it be easier, if you did…”).</li>
      <li>One interviewer acts as a distractor (<em>i.e.</em>$, to learn if the candidate is easily distracted or not, and whether she loses her train of thought easily or not).</li>
      <li>The Task interview includes three exercises,</li>
       <ul>
        <li>Easy. Doable within a half hour. Meant to make the candidate feel good, confident.</li>
        <li>Middling. Doable within one hour.</li>
        <li>Difficult. Doable within two hours. Instructions for the difficult exercise are incomplete to see what the candidate does about it.</li>
       </ul>
      <li>Give the candidate feedback immediately, as much as you can.</li>
     </ul>
     <li>Thumbs meeting</li>
      <ul>
       <li>Everybody who's talked to the candidate gets together.</li>
       <li>On their own, they grade the candidate on 1-4 scale on a) tech skills and b) cultural alignment.</li>
       <li>They disclose their ratings (<em>e.g.</em>, Planning Poker) and discuss results.</li>
       <li>If need be, update ratings.</li>
       <li>Repeat until the decision to hire/not hire is made.</li>
       <li>If the decision is to pass but offer Office Hours, whoever volunteers to do it takes the lead and talks to the candidate about the process, etc.</li>
       <li>If the decision is to hire, but it includes the Skills Incubator, then a member of the team takes the lead to talk with the candidate about the process, etc.</li>
       <li>If the decision is to hire, then you’re done.</li>
      </ul>
     </ul>
 <p>The interview process must be completely transparent. Interviewers must keep notes throughout the process and share them with the candidate at the end of it,</p>
  <ol>
   <li>Tell rejected candidates exactly why you decided against hiring.</li>
   <li>Include very specific recommendations for how to close any gaps you found.</li>
  </ol>
<h2 style="font-size:30px; font-family:Courier New, monospace; ">Office Hours</h1>
 <p>Offer rejected candidates the opprtunity to join you for Office Hours. For example, you could commit to doing two sessions per week, one hour each.</p>
 <p>During these sessions,</p>
  <ul>
   <li>Review the recommendations with her</li>
   <li>Figure out a plan, including books and sites to read, bloggers to follow, Pair exercises, etc.</li>
   <li>Encourage her to join StackOverflow, sign up for GitHub, join, or even start, an OSS project.</li>
  </ul>
 <p>When you think she's ready, ask her if she's ready to try again, and if so, tell your team.</p>
 <p>If they agree to take her on again, they pick up where the process stopped. If she was disqualified after the Profile interview, then start by having another Profile interview. Ditto if the process was stopped at the Task interview. Of course, the team can decide to skip, say, the Profile and go straight to the Task.</p>
<h2 style="font-size:30px; font-family:Courier New, monospace; ">Incubator</h1>
 <p>This Incubator is for people who is missing a key skill, or doesn’t have experienced with a particular technology,</p>
  <ul>
   <li>After the Thumbs, a member of the team tells the candidate about the Skills Incubator.</li>
   <li>The team had already estimated how long it would take the candidate to complete the program, now ask the candidate for her own estimate.</li>
   <li>Share the team's estimate (<em>i.e.</em>, usually their estimate is lower than the team’s).</li>
   <li>Now you can both figure out what the appropriate estimate is to complete the Skills Incubator program.</li>
   <li>Use an in-house or external program to do the necessary training.</li>
   <li>Assign a mentor.</li>
   <li>The mentor's job is to check with the candidate about her progress, any questions she may have, any topic the mentor feels she needs help with.</li>
  </ul>
<h2 style="font-size:30px; font-family:Courier New, monospace; ">Power Up</h1>
 <p>This program is for members who want to learn a new skill or a new stack,</p>
  <ul>
   <li>For example, an Android developer wants to learn iOS or a C++ developer realizes she needs to learn a functional language.</li>
   <li>The Power Up program leverages the experience a developer has gained to deliver the equivalent of one year experience in a few weeks. Shifting to a new paradigm will take longer (<em>e.g.</em>, from object oriented to functional).</li>
   <li>A kickoff Power Up program covers the basics, but the rest would come in follow up workshops and production work.</li>
  </ul>
<h2 style="font-size:30px; font-family:Courier New, monospace; ">People Development</h1>
 <p>TBD</p>
<h2 style="font-size:30px; font-family:Courier New, monospace; ">Holding on to Your Chicken</h1>
 <p>The “chicken” comes from an illustration that Kimberly Wiefling<sup id="id04"><a href="#en04">4</a></sup> uses in her workshops where she holds a rubber chicken up over her head, let go of it, and let it fall to the floor. Then she asks, “what happened to the chicken?” The responses are usually all over the place, but every so often a small voice says, “… because you let it go of it?” And that’s the point: you let go of your power, your essence, to others. And those more powerful than you grab it as soon as you let go of it.</p>
 <p>We learn this habit at home, when we are little. We let our caretakers guide our chickens as they teach us the basics of staying alive. Once we enter school, most of our teachers, unfortunately, take our chickens from us outright. “You must learn discipline,” they tell us, “and I’ll tell you how to behave.” Throughout school we learn that obedience comes first: if we don’t please the teacher, we don’t get the sticker, or, worse, we are sent to the Principal’s office. Finally, we reach college, but by then the habit is deeply ingrained. Undergraduates are like high-schoolers with a bit more freedom outside of school, but in school it is a game of pleasing the professor and getting good grades. Grad students are often referred to as “slave labor” for their supervisors. By the time we start to work, we are fully conditioned to hand our chickens to our superiors, “Where do I sit? What team am I in? What do you want me to do, boss?”We have to grow out of the habit of letting go of our chicken. We need to learn to hold on to it. In fact, we can make companies better all around by holding on to our chicken. We can collaborate more openly, experiment more, innovate more, come up with outside-the-box solutions more often. We can bring our full selves to work, take off our masks, and stop holding back. We can bring real value as we create with others.</p>
 <p>Ideally, we would not learn the habit of giving up our chicken so easily in the first place, but at our workplaces we can certainly replace that terrible habit with the habit of holding on to our chicken.</p>

<h1 style="font-size:50px; font-family:Courier New, monospace; text-align:center; margin: 60px 0 20px 0; ">RELATED</h1>