---
layout:   post
title:    "Meaning, Belonging, and Fiat"
subtitle: "TEMPLATE"
authors:  "Matt Perez, Anita Perez"
image:    "icon-meaning-belonging-and fiat.svg"
---

<div style='display:none; '>
 <p>Meaning is the shortest of five beings who live in a house called Foundation. It is also the one that stands higher. It is an introvert.</p>
 <p>Belonging is a friend of Meaning. It is an extrovert. It enjoys others, even when they disagree, becaujse Belonging learns a lot from their disagreements.</p>
</div>

<h1>Meaning and Belonging</h1>
 <p>Meaning and Belonging always come and go together. They always hold hands, like good friends.</p>
 <p>Meaning remains quiet until it finds others and the he blossoms. It lives atop and deep inside and it sees all there is and he chooses where it belongs. That is how it found Belonging and Fiat.</p>
 <p>Meaning becomes stronger when it is supported by others, like Belonging and Fiat. Belonging becomes happier when it finds supporting beings like Meaning and Fiat.</p>

<h1>Belonging</h1>
 <p>&ldquo;<em>It was long time ago,</em>&rdquo; said Belonging, &ldquo;<em>when I met Meaning and Fiat</em>.&rdquo; They were all very good friends, Meaning, Belonging, and Fiat. They did not know back then how much Fiat would impact their lives.</p>

<h1>Fiat</h1>
 <p>Fiat came together from pieces on the floor. Sharp pieces.</p>
 <p>He had a way of morphing so we all saw different shapes of it. Meaning, Belonging, and all the beings had the ability to change as they listened. Fiat&rsquo;s morphing abilities were something else.</p>
 <p>And another thing: all the beings picked up pieces of love as they formed, but Fiat did not.</p>

<h1>How It All Started</h1>
 <p>Fiat turned out to be very divisive.</p>
 <p>It all started when it moved out of the Foundation house with Fear and Threat; they had also very little love in them. Fear even had named one of his morphings Pity.</p>