---
layout:   post
title:    "Later"
subtitle: "TEMPLATE"
authors:  "Matt Perez"
image:    "icon-a-couple-of-years-later.svg"
---

<div style="display: none;">
 <p>It took effort, but it didn't take long. We were used to competition and domination, but it killed us. Restarting from near scratch actually helped.</p>
</div>

<h1>The Salt of the Earth</h1>
 <p>It seemd to me that the salt battery was the fulcrum that helped us bolt forward. It was developed by a small community in Australia, a continent that was almost uninhabitable because it was so hot. They shared instructions of how to make them over the voice network which had painstankingly come together. Soon, communities throughout the world shared their improvements. We had renewable enerby storage systems that ensembles of commuities could build on.</p>
 <p>Then a community from South America that had sprung up around what use to be the border of Peru and Chile shared that they had a rudimentary form of <em>energy harvesting</em>; they had built the technology to capture ambient energy from the environment. The platform for the sodium-sulphur battery came in very handy for energy harvesting and the responses came in <em>very</em> rapidly. The whole world was working together and coming up with tangible results that communities and ensembles of communities could build.</p>
 <p>The salt battery and energy harvesting were the results, we could build on them, but what started it all were decentralization and transparency; fearless sharing and no need for secrecy; the playfulness that allowed us to experiement and learn; communities making it all meaningful and joyful; collaboratioon instead of ruthless competition.</p>
 <p> No place for domination: ranking is now dynamic, a function of contributions.</p>

<h1>The <span class="_paradigm">rCOIN</span> Economy</h1>
 <p>Nevertheless we needed money. Well, no, we needed &ldquo;a medium of exchange&rdquo; that would work anywhere in the world. And <a href="https://radicalcompanies.com/2022/05/07/rcoin.html" target="_blank"><span class="_paradigm">rCOIN</span>s worked</a>. The problem with <span href="_paradigm">FIAT</span> money is that for exchange, accumulation, and a unit of measure.</p>

<h1><span class="_paradigm">rCOIN</span>s as Collaboration</h1>
 <p>As I see it, the <span class="_paradigm">RADICAL</span> model of co-ownership and co-management is the next stage in collaboration. Everything humanity has accomplished has been based on collaboration, but we have acted as if dominance by a few is the only way to achieve “progress.”</p>
 <p>Competition has become an obstacle to real progress and it is now getting in the way of the next surge of human accomplishments. Now it’s time to move on and build on the foundation of collaboration.</p>

<h1><span class="_paradigm">rCOIN</span>s for a World-Wide Market</h1>
 <p>A world-wide market would bring us together rather than keeping us siloed by the Rube Goldberg markets we have today.</p>
 <p>We could have a single world government create and enforce a single currency. But even if it were politically feasible, it is unnecessary and a move in the wrong direction towards centralization. To wit, we didn’t need a single world government for minutes, meters, or the Internet, some of the most useful world-wide tools of all time.</p>
 <p>A decentralized, transparent <span class="_paradigm">rCOIN</span> is fundamental to such a unified market. These are some of the other things we would need to nourish and support a world-wide market,
<span class="_paradigm">rCOIN</span>s for a Decentralized Market</p>
 <p>We need a decentralized market to nurture the next stage of innovation and accomplishment. Unfortunately, national fiat coins are an obstacle to this. They are not very stable and are subject to cyclical crises.9 They make international markets very complex, very opaque, and very expensive.</p>
 <p>Today’s international markets have been cobbled together by agreements that are fraught with weaknesses. National and international politics make transaction costs very expensive. Worst of all, these international markets are unduly influenced by transnational businesses seeking to profit no matter the harm to society.</p>
 <p>A decentralized market, free of interference and manipulation, is the iltimate pricing engine.</p>

<h1>Decentralized Minting of <span class="_paradigm">rCOIN</span>s</h1>
 <p>We need decentralized minting of <span class="_paradigm">rCOIN</span>s to take national and international politics out of it and to eliminate the influence of transnational corporations.</p>
 <p><span class="_paradigm">rCOIN</span>s are minted by companies, not any national government or central banks.</p>

<h1><span class="_paradigm">rCOIN</span>s Are Transparent</p>
 <p>National fiat coins are opaque. In theory that’s good because it reduces transaction costs. But this “reduction of costs” also disables human choice.</p>
 <p>In any case, the big transaction costs are those that banks, exchanges, and political manipulation bring in. And opaqueness does not reduce any of those.</p>
 <p><span class="_paradigm">rCOIN</span>s are transparent. An integral part of each <span class="_paradigm">rCOIN</span> is the log that comes along with them. This will restore people’s ability to make choices based on that information.</p>